The Imiq Hydroclimate Database
May 2014

Contact: imiq@arcticlcc.org

BACKGROUND

The Imiq database is a central repository containing hydrology and 
climate-related data in Alaska and nearby regions and was built by researchers 
at the University of Alaska Fairbanks. The word Imiq means ‘freshwater’ in the 
Inupiat language of Northern Alaska.

HOW TO CITE THE DATA

* Please cite the source of the data, when possible, in
the body of the publication/presentation.  Source information is provided in the Imiq_Site_List.rtf.   

* Please cite the Imiq Hydroclimate Datbase as the publisher of the data in the body or acknowledgements 
of the publication/presentation (e.g. Data were obtained from the Imiq Hydroclimate Database at 
the University of Alaska Fairbanks (http://imiq-map.gina.alaska.edu) [Cherry and Jacobs, 2012]).

Imiq Report Citation: Cherry, J.E. and A.S Jacobs, 2012. Hydroclimate 
Observations in Arctic Alaska: Analysis of Past Networks and Recommendations 
for the Future, report to the Arctic Landscape Conservation Cooperative, 
143 pp.

PROJECT PARTNERS

Construction of the Imiq Database was funded by the Arctic 
Landscape Conservation Cooperative (LCC) and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife 
Service. Development of the Imiq Data Portal was funded by the Arctic LCC and 
the North Slope Science Initiative, and implemented by the Geographic 
Information Network of Alaska (GINA). Data were contributed and collected from many 
agencies and investigator-driven research projects.



